---
layout: post
category: publication
published: true
title: "Spindle Checkpoint Factors Bub1 and Bub2 Promote DNA Double Strand Break Repair by Non-Homologous End Joining."
date: 2015-05-12 12:00:00
pmid: 25963654
authors: "Jessulat M, Malty RH, Nguyen-Tran DH, Deineko V, Aoki H, Vlasblom J, Omidi K, Jin K, Minic Z, Hooshyar M, Burnside D, Samanfar B, Phanse S, Freywald T, Prasad B, Zhang Z, Vizeacoumar F, Krogan NJ, Freywald A, Golshani A, Babu M"
firstauthor: "Jessulat M"
journalname: "Mol. Cell. Biol."
journalvolume: 
journalissue: 
journalpages: 
---

The Non-Homologous End Joining (NHEJ) pathway is essential for the preservation of genome integrity, as it efficiently repairs DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). Previous biochemical and genetic investigations have indicated that, despite the importance of this pathway, the entire complement of genes regulating NHEJ remains unknown. To address this, we employed a plasmid-based NHEJ DNA-repair screen in budding yeast using 369 putative non-essential DNA-repair related components as queries. Among the newly identified genes associated with NHEJ deficiency upon disruption are two spindle assembly checkpoint kinases, Bub1 and Bub2. Both observation of resulting phenotypes and chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrated that Bub1 and 2, either alone or in combination with cell cycle regulators, are recruited near the DSB where phosphorylated Rad53 or H2A accumulates. Large-scale proteomic analysis of Bub kinases phosphorylated in response to DNA damage identified previously unknown kinase substrates on Tel1 [S/T] Q sites. Moreover, Bub1 NHEJ function appears to be conserved in mammalian cells. 53BP1, which influence DSB repair by NHEJ, co-localizes with human BUB1 and is recruited to the break sites. Thus, while Bub is not a core component of NHEJ machinery, our data supports its dual role in mitotic exit and promoting NHEJ repair in yeast and mammals.

