---
layout: post
category: publication
published: true
title: "Virus-like vesicles of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus activate lytic replication through triggering differentiation signaling."
date: 2017-05-18 12:00:00
pmid: 28515293
authors: "Gong D, Dai X, Xiao Y, Du Y, Chapa TJ, Johnson JR, Li X, Krogan NJ, Deng H, Wu TT, Sun R"
firstauthor: "Gong D"
journalname: "J. Virol."
journalvolume: 
journalissue: 
journalpages: 
---

Virus-like vesicles (VLVs) are membrane enclosed vesicles that resemble native enveloped viruses in organization, but lack viral capsid and genome. During the productive infection of tumor associated gamma-herpesviruses, both virions and VLVs are produced and released into the extracellular space. However, studies of gamma-herpesvirus associated VLVs have been largely restricted by the technical difficulty of separating VLVs from mature virions. Here, we report a strategy of using a Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) mutant defective in small capsid protein, unable to produce mature virions, to selectively isolate VLVs. Using mass spectrometry analysis, we identified that VLVs contained viral glycoproteins required for cellular entry, as well as tegument proteins involved in regulating lytic replication, but lacked capsid proteins. Functional analysis showed that VLVs induced the expression of viral lytic activator RTA, initiating KSHV lytic gene expression. Furthermore, employing RNA sequencing, we performed a genome-wide analysis of cellular responses triggered by VLVs and found that PRDM1, a master regulator in cell differentiation, was significantly up-regulated. In the context of KSHV replication, we demonstrated that VLV induced up-regulation of PRDM1 was necessary and sufficient to reactivate KSHV by activating its RTA promoter. Collectively, our study systematically examined VLV composition, as well as demonstrated their biological roles in manipulating host cell responses and in facilitating KSHV lytic replication.IMPORTANCE Tumor-associated herpesviruses lytically infected cells produce a high proportion of virus-like vesicles (VLVs). The composition and function of VLVs have not been well defined, largely due to the inability to efficiently isolate VLVs free from virions. Using a cell system capable of establishing KSHV latent infection and robust reactivation, we successfully isolated VLVs from a KSHV mutant defective of the small capsid protein. We quantitatively analyzed proteins and microRNAs in VLVs, and characterized roles of VLVs in manipulating host cells and facilitating viral infection. More importantly, we demonstrated that by up-regulating PRDM1 expression, VLVs triggered differentiation signaling in targeted cells and facilitated viral lytic infection via activating the RTA promoter. Our study not only demonstrates a new strategy of isolating VLVs, but also shows the important roles of KSHV associated VLVs in intercellular communication and the viral life cycle.

